# cal-honors-thesis
This research project overall aims to study the impact of a flexible extension policy on student learning. Flexible deadlines and their effect on students’ learning have been used and documented by some educators, but are still not the norm in post-secondary classrooms. Over the last two decades, several studies have described the impact of the use of flexible deadlines in post-secondary classrooms, and they have shown that flexible deadline policies have the potential to result in better quality work under decreased stress. However, the studies are all done in smaller-scale classrooms and do not address the added complexity and unique challenges present in large enrollment courses. In particular, widespread implementation brings administrative course management concerns, such as late work being hard to track and cumbersome to grade. A practical implementation of this policy in a large enrollment course thus requires both the simplification of the management of extension requests and the automated grading of assignments. This paper investigates a new strategy, an automated flexible extension policy, that has risen across several Computer Science and Data Science classes at UC Berkeley. Dubbed “Flextensions," this policy is a response to pedagogical shifts in higher education where rigid and harsh deadlines are the norm, as it intends to provide sufficient accommodations to each student’s unique learning needs and life circumstances to create equitable learning opportunities for all students. This paper examines the policy’s impact on three UC Berkeley Data Science courses, including its effectiveness in streamlining the management process, enhancing student experience, and maintaining educational quality, with a particular focus on student learning experiences and perspectives.
